#  Analysis: The potential economic value to humanity of space-based science

## Cost-benefit analysis table
|                  Cost                  |                                       Benefit                                       |
|:--------------------------------------:|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
|    Research & Development expenses     |       Promote technology progress and there might be more economical rewards        |
|          Human capital costs           |          More employment and help employees gain experience with the space          |
|  Expenses to maintain the facilities   | Progress in infrastructure technology and prepare for construction on alien planets |
|   The risk of losing the astronauts    |                       Possibility of discovering new planets                        |
|     Social resources are attracted     | There could be more benefits to the society if a new habitable planet is discovered |
| Less focus on internal issues on Earth |                Gives mankind a “unified goal” to eliminate conflicts                |

## Article Summaries – The potential economic value to humanity of space-based science

### Précis for Benefits Stemming from Space Exploration

The article “Benefits Stemming from Space Exploration” by the International Space Exploration Coordination Group (ISECG) emphasizes numerous benefits to mankind, including potential economic benefits. The article focuses on the key themes: advances in science and technology, an expanded economic sphere, culture and inspiration, and new means to address global challenges.

Advances in science and technology have been a major benefit of space exploration. Space missions require the development of space technologies that can withstand the harsh conditions. Many of these innovations have evolved and benefited society, including advances in medicine, transportation, and communications. The article states that “investment in space‐based endeavors is becoming sufficiently attractive to private entrepreneurs.” Also, that article emphasizes that new opportunities for job creation and economic growth are being created by private companies that are increasingly investing in space exploration and seeking ways to make space exploration more affordable, reliable, sustainable, and profitable. (International Space Exploration Coordination Group 8-9)

The article points out that space exploration has fostered advances in culture and inspiration. This satisfies human’s curiosity and inspires wonder, attracting more people to pursue space-related careers, and then spurring economic growth by creating jobs in fields such as engineering, satellite manufacturing, and data analysis. In addition, the development of space tourism - planetary mining - has the potential to drive significant economic growth in the future, creating new opportunities for businesses and communities. (International Space Exploration Coordination Group 11)

In addition, the article emphasizes that space exploration has the potential to address global challenges such as climate change or the efficient use of scarce resources. Data collected through space-based technologies can be used for weather forecasting and disaster response. Addressing global challenges through space exploration can lead to cost savings and increased efficiency. (International Space Exploration Coordination Group 12)

Besides short-term benefits, the article also looks in the long run, claiming that mankind may be ready to "incorporate the solar system in our economic sphere". (International Space Exploration Coordination Group 11) By achieving this, the article discusses the potential innovations such as “Closed Loop Life Support System” and “Telemedicine” that will benefit astronauts in long duration space travel, and these technologies can be applied to other fields such as medicine to provide better medical conditions to people living far away from advanced medical resources, thus reducing the gap between rich and poor and thus promoting economic development. More broadly, claims the article, the ability to work longer in space may encourage further investment. Developments in propulsion, transportation, and infrastructure systems may reduce the cost of space access to and use of space, enabling expanded private investment in space cargo transportation, space tourism, and resource exploitation. (International Space Exploration Coordination Group 17-18)

The article concludes that it has distilled a body of evidence of such benefits into a few key observations. Space exploration has spurred scientific and technological innovations that benefit people around the world every day, it serves a cultural and inspirational purpose by satisfying a deep need to understand the world, and it provides unique opportunities to address some of the global challenges facing society today. Finally, the article points out that "no activity on Earth matches the unique challenges of space exploration. Past activities have benefited humankind, and there is strong reason to believe that investments in space exploration will have a similarly positive impact for future generations. (International Space Exploration Coordination Group 21)

### Article II

The article "Space Economy for People, Planet and Prosperity" is published by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in 2021 and provides an overview of the discussions at the Space Economy Leaders Meeting (Space20), organized within the framework of the G20. The article focuses on key information related to the space economy from a government perspetive, including the central role of governments in space activities, the contributions of the space economy to economic growth and innovation, and the remaining challenges to realizing the benefits of public space investments.

According to the article, governments play an important role in promoting research and development, financial support, and also space manufacturing. The article emphasizes the importance of governments in space economy by presenting the governments’ space budgets as a share of the country’s GDP. The data presented in the article shows that in 2020, the median value of space budgets as a share of GDP amounted to 0.05% for G20 economies as a whole, with the US and Russia investing more than 0.2% of their GDP. Therefore, according to the article, the important role of government investment in the development of space activities is likely to continue as a trend in the coming decade, despite greater private sector participation. (OECD 7)

The article also highlights the contributions of space economy to economic growth and innovation. The article points out that government investment in space sector plays an important role in the post-COVID-19 recovery, economic growth, and societal well-being. According to the Space Economy Satellite Account built by the US Bureau of Economic Analysis, the US space econo accounted for 0.5% of national GDP in 2018. Industries such as information and communications technology are the largest contributing sector. The article also points out that there is growing interest in the economic benefits of government space programs because they can involve the sharing of knowledge and technology among participating companies; in addition, the article presents data on government investment in space-related projects to support its claims. Furthermore, according to the article, an increasing number of missions are being designed with multiple applications and technology transfer to other sectors in mind, including computer technology, environmental and resource management, and military use. (OECD 7-16)

Besides promoting economic growth and development, the article also focuses on the remaining challenges to realizing the benefits of public space investments. The article first proposes to address skills and gender gaps in workforce. It points focuses on the future of space exploratioin and points out that space agencies can play a significant role in attracting students and women to STEM-related opportunities; moreover, private space organizations can push this trend even further. Additionally, the article points out the need to solve the threats of space debris. With the growing reliance on space related infrastructure, debris-related incidents can cause significant negative consequences. Another challenge the article highlights is the need to address limitations to accessing and utilizing satellite data, and this is important for some developing countries, for they lack the reources and satellite data themselves. The article emphasizes on the need for collaboration among governments. (OECD 17-19)

The article concludes with several policy options to support the space economy. It suggests that governments could improve monitoring of resource and skills needs and identify key space technology barriers and adopt strategies to address them. Furthermore, with regard to medium- and long-term solutions, the article points out that governments should address space debris migration and measures to improve space situational awareness systems, data reporting structures, and further research and development. (OECD 21-22)
